github: add issue reporting guide (#4436)
moby/buildkit: .github/issue_reporting_guide.md

Reviewer: nit: s/Github/GitHub/g

# Issue reporting guide

* [Security issues](#security-issues)
* [Search for an existing issue](#search-for-an-existing-issue)
* [Reproducible test case](#reproducible-test-case)
* [Describe your environment](#describe-your-environment)
* [Reporting deadlock](#reporting-deadlock)
* [Reporting panics/error returns](#reporting-panics-error-returns)
* [Gathering more debugging data](#gathering-more-debugging-data)
* [Regressions](#regressions)
* [Debugging issues that only reproduce in the live environment](#debugging-issues-that-only-reproduce-in-the-live-environment)
* [Follow the progress of your issue](#follow-the-progress-of-your-issue)
* [Try fixing your issue yourself](#try-fixing-your-issue-yourself)
* [Additional reading](#additional-reading)

## Security issues

Do NOT report security issues publicly. See [https://github.com/moby/buildkit/security/policy](https://github.com/moby/buildkit/security/policy) 

## Search for an existing issue

> Before creating a new issue, search the repository if a similar issue has already been reported before. You can also try Google, as Github search is not that great.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before creating a new issue, search the repository to see if a similar issue has already been reported before. You can also try Google, as Github search is not that great.
```

If you find an existing issue, there is still a chance that you can provide additional information there. It may be missing a lot of information you can provide that could help contributors fix the problem quicker. This guide should give you enough information to evaluate if the existing report could be improved.

> You can use the reactions feature of Github to signal that you have also hit the same problem. Leaving “me too” comments on the issue without any new useful information isn’t really helpful. If you notice that the issue is not properly labeled or should be in the milestone (see “Follow the progress of your issue”) then you can leave a comment, notifying the maintainers. If the issue you find is already closed, it is usually better to create a new one instead of leaving a new comment on closed issue.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use the reactions feature of Github to signal that you have also hit the same problem. Leaving “me too” comments on the issue without any new useful information isn’t really helpful. If you notice that the issue is not properly labeled or should be in the milestone (see [Follow the progress of your issue](#follow-the-progress-of-your-issue)) then you can leave a comment, notifying the maintainers. If the issue you find is already closed, it is usually better to create a new one instead of leaving a new comment on closed issue.
```

If you are not sure if your problem is the same as another report, then the best approach is to open a new issue and link to a previous one so a maintainer can decide if the new issue is a duplicate or not.

## Reproducible test case

The best way for you to drastically improve the chances of your issue getting resolved quickly is to provide a reproducible test case that demonstrates the problem. Maintainers need to choose where they spend their time, and the last thing they want is to spend a day chasing an issue only to find out in the end that there was no problem in the code or that whatever they try, there is no way they can validate that description in the report is correct. In prioritization, we need to look at the reports that can make the biggest user impact in minimal development time.

> Ideally, your reproducer runs in containers. This is easiest for the maintainers to replicate, even if they do not have the same setup as you do.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Ideally, your reproducer runs in containers. This is easiest for the maintainers to replicate, who may not have the same setup as you do.
```

Depending on how complex the problem you are reporting is the test case might be just some commands in the description or a separate script. In some cases where you need multiple files it makes sense to create a separate “reproducer repository” under your Github account that can be cloned to run the your scripts.

> `docker buildx create` command makes it easy to run BuildKit in a container. This way you can control that it starts empty, and you can build up your state precisely. If you need buildkit in docker daemon can also run in `dind` image [https://hub.docker.com/_/docker](https://hub.docker.com/_/docker) . For regular script containers you can just `docker run`  and there is no need for extra sandbox in `dind`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`docker buildx create` command makes it easy to run BuildKit in a container. This way you can control that it starts empty, and you can build up your state precisely. If you need buildkit in docker daemon can also run in `dind` image [https://hub.docker.com/_/docker](https://hub.docker.com/_/docker). For regular script containers you can just `docker run` and there is no need for extra sandbox in `dind`.
```

If you need a registry, you can run a local one inside a container with [https://hub.docker.com/_/registry](https://hub.docker.com/_/registry) image.

Often your issue will appear when running your complicated production build that has lots of moving parts. Try to simplify your case until you find the part that actually makes a difference for the issue you are reporting, and report the minimal testcase that you can come up with. Even if you need a specific type of build you may not need the exact features. For example, you might not need a registry (that makes reproducible test case harder) but same issue could also reproduce with OCI tarball export (`-o type=oci` ) that has a very similar code path but is much easier to call.

> If you have provided a reproducible test case with your issue you can ask a maintainer to confirm that they can reproduce it and confirm that it is a problem. Then the maintainer should mark it with “bug” and “confirmed” labels indicating that the report is correct and ready for anyone to work on it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you have provided a reproducible test case with your issue, a maintainer will reproduce and confirm if it is a problem. Then the maintainer marks the issue with “bug” and “confirmed” labels, indicating that the report is correct and ready for anyone to work on it.
```

Sometimes the issue doesn’t reproduce every time. If you can put together a test case the only shows the problem 10-20% of times it is invoked it can still be very helpful for the maintainers.

If you can’t put together a reproducible test case, you should still open an issue and try to provide as much other information as you can.

## Describe your environment

In addition to describing the problem make sure to provide enough details about the environment where you have confirmed the issue is appearing.

There are lots of ways to run BuildKit, first make it clear which way you are using. Are you using `docker build` , a specific driver of `docker buildx` , running `buildkitd` or `buildctl` manually, in kubernetes, etc. 

> Sometimes it is not completely clear if the issue belongs in `moby/buildkit` , `docker/buildx` or even `moby/moby` repository. If you are unsure you can start from either BuildKit or Buildx and maintainers will fix it if needed. BuildKit is where your builds actually run, Buildx covers a Docker CLI experience and BuildKit deployment with drivers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Sometimes it is not completely clear if the issue belongs in `moby/buildkit` , `docker/buildx` or even `moby/moby` repository. If you are unsure you can start from either BuildKit or Buildx and maintainers, feel free to report the issue here. Maintainers will re-route it if necessary. BuildKit is where your builds actually run, Buildx covers a Docker CLI experience and BuildKit deployment with drivers.
```

If you are running an older version of BuildKit then ideally, you should try to reproduce the problem with the latest version before reporting it.

The easiest way to test the latest BuildKit release is with the Docker Buildx container driver:

```bash
docker buildx create --name buildkit-latest --bootstrap
export BUILDX_BUILDER=buildkit-latest
docker buildx inspect
```

If you also want to check if the issue still appears in the `master` development branch you can run:

```bash
docker buildx build --load -t moby/buildkit:dev "https://github.com/moby/buildkit.git"
docker buildx create --name buildkit-dev --driver-opt image=moby/buildkit:dev --bootstrap
export BUILDX_BUILDER=buildkit-dev
docker buildx inspect
```

To check if a specific existing PR is fixing the problem you can replace the first line with:

```bash
docker buildx build --load -t moby/buildkit:dev "https://github.com/moby/buildkit.git#pull/NR/head"
```

If your issue requires a specific environment or you have only encountered it in a specific environment then make sure to describe that.

This would be for example specific BuildKit configurations:

- Rootless mode

> - Non-default snapshotter

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Non-default image store (e.g. containerd with a custom snapshotter)
```

- Special (insecure/mirror) registry configuration
- Using containerd worker instead of default OCI one

> - Custom CNI configuration

Reviewer 2: ?

```suggestion
- Custom CNI configuration
- Frontend
```

Or specific execution environment:

- Docker Desktop or other Docker distro

> - AWS/EBS

Reviewer: Does "EBS" here mean Elastic Block Store?

Reviewer: (Not sure if Elastic Block Store is relevant here)

Author: I think we have issues atm with some (unconfirmed) reports of slowness where the EBS based storage seems to be the differentiating factor.

There are more advanced ways to use `git bisect` (that automatically find the commit using a script) but basic workflow would be.

```bash
# clean checkout
git bisect start
git bisect good <known good commit SHA or tag/branch>
git bisect bad <known good commit SHA or tag/branch>

# this does a checkout to a candidate commit

# run your steps with buildkit from that step

docker buildx build -t moby/buildkit:dev --load .
docker buildx create --name buildkit-dev --driver-opt image=moby/buildkit:dev --buildkitd-flags '--debug' --bootstrap
export BUILDX_BUILDER=buildkit-dev

# your test code 

# when you are done
unset BUILDX_BUILDER
docker buildx rm buildkit-dev

# if your test code behaved correctly then
git bisect good
# otherwise
git bisect bad

# this will checkout another candidate commit that you can test again

# Eventually this will print you a message about which commit was the first one that
# introduced the issue.
```

## Debugging issues that only reproduce in the live environment

> Sometimes BuildKit is is bad state and behaves incorrectly but there is no way to reproduce it and restarting process would make the issue go away.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Sometimes BuildKit is in a bad state and behaves incorrectly, but there is no way to reproduce it and restarting process would make the issue go away.
```

In that case the best option is to use interactive debugger attached to the `buildkitd` process. This involves some understanding of Go tooling and BuildKit codebase.

> Go has a debugger called Delve https://github.com/go-delve/delve that can be used for such tasks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Go has a debugger called [Delve](https://github.com/go-delve/delve) that can be used for such tasks.
```

Reviewer: "Go has ..." might be slightly misleading, as it is not officially part of Go?
```suggestion
[Delve](https://github.com/go-delve/delve) can be used for such tasks.
```

> BuildKit image can be built together with Delve by setting `--build-arg BUILDKIT_DEBUG=1` when building the image. In most cases you will not know you need Delve though before you already have a faulty instance. In that case you can use `docker cp` to copy static binary of Delve into buildkit container and then invoke it from `docker exec` session.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
BuildKit image can be built together with Delve by setting `--build-arg BUILDKIT_DEBUG=1` when building the image. In most cases you will not know you need Delve though before you already have a faulty instance. In that case you can use `docker cp` to copy static binary of Delve into the BuildKit container and then invoke it from `docker exec` session.
```

> In order to attach to running BuildKitd instance run:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order to attach to running `buildkitd` instance, run:
```

If you notice that a specific maintainer has worked on the feature your report is about before you may mention them directly on your issue. You can also ping specific people when you think it has been unreasonably long time since the last answer.

## Try fixing your issue yourself

We appreciate if you can take initiative for fixing your issue yourself and can help you through the process. Start by reading through contributing guide [https://github.com/moby/buildkit/blob/master/.github/CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/moby/buildkit/blob/master/.github/CONTRIBUTING.md) and relevance developer docs [https://github.com/moby/buildkit/tree/master/docs/dev](https://github.com/moby/buildkit/tree/master/docs/dev) .

For bigger items please confirm your proposed design with the maintainers first to make sure the review process goes smoothly.

If you have questions maintainers can answer them in the issue or in #buildkit channel at Docker community slack.

You can also ask to be assigned on the issue to avoid any possible duplicate work with anyone else.

## Additional reading

[Code of conduct](https://github.com/moby/buildkit/blob/master/.github/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)

> [OS Etiquette](https://opensource.how/etiquette/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Open Source Etiquette](https://opensource.how/etiquette/)
```
